let's assume for a second you can't
think your way out of this okay now what
what do you lose if this idea that
you're not enough goes
away that I'm not in control
of my experience I've got some strong
[__] that energy there great so just say
it to God I am in control of all of
this it's all of that yearning for
connection it's it means loving the
world and that's a [__] ton of [__] to
love
Joe yeah it
is I'm Brett kler and this is the art of
accomplishment where we explore living
the life you want with en joyment and
ease today's episode is a coaching
session where Joe coaches a woman who is
struggling with a feeling that she needs
to be good enough to be in a
relationship as she and Joe explore what
it means to be enough for herself and
for others she discovers an underlying
desire for control along with a deep
fear of self-abandonment let's find out
what happens as they unpack enoughness
and how it reshapes her understanding of
Love connection and relationships hi hi
good to see you it's good to see you too
so what are we working on today what's
the
deal what's the deal what's the
deal I can link this back to a
conversation we had this summer where um
you said to me something along the lines
of you appear to be like an attractive
put together
woman why aren't you in a
relationship and we talked a good bit
about that but what I realized is like
the thing that you encapsulated in that
sentence is something I've really deeply
internalized not from that conversation
but throughout life of if I am put
together and attractive enough then I
will be in a relationship I will have
this that I really want and I have yeah
I have this Narrative of being better so
that someone will love me that I want to
unpack with
you great what's amazing to me also is
just that whatever I said I'm pretty
confident it wasn't that that might have
been how you heard it probably not it's
what I heard it's what my brain was
like right so even you hearing it is a
hearing it that way is a is a reflection
of this idea cool so how good-look do
you have to
be to attract the man that you
want I don't
know uh it doesn't seem I I don't think
about it in terms of physical attraction
as much as I think about it as
emotional resonance and maturity and
okay so how how put together do you have
to be how put together
you got to be like Mother Teresa put
together do you have to be like like
what's like what's the level of put
together that achieves the goal of your
lovability I don't know but like the the
narrative in my brain is like more than
what it is now right and my assumption
is that's always been no
matter like my guess is you're more put
together for lack of a better word than
you were at 23 like my experience of you
would me
it would be impossible for that not to
happen and back then you had to be more
and now you have to be more there's a
never ending so there's it's just always
more
moving right
exactly right
so who taught you that like you have to
be more to be lovable how did that
happen that's a good question
what's that
emotion uh
curiosity um I'm noticing that as I
think about that question if you
couldn't feel curious if you couldn't
feel curious what would you have to feel
right now what would I have to feel if I
didn't feel
curious like a sadness sadness yeah
um the thing that came up is noticing
that I've in the past settled into
relationships that weren't good enough
for me because I didn't think
that uh yeah this is this is a weird
bind uh I I both have this narrative
that I have to be better and be more in
order to find the relationship I want
and I have the narrative and the history
of settling for Less because I didn't
think that what I deserve was
available yeah can you hear the dogs in
the background I can it's okay I don't
mind sorry
yeah and and both of those two things
create sadness in your system it sounds
like yeah the noticing that I've settled
for lesson that's somehow part of this
Dynamic was what produced the
sadness yeah
I'm curious what what's the what's the
if any what's the need to save
somebody H in your
system anybody friends
family
boyfriends it's this Narrative of like
if I can be good enough you can be good
enough if I can somehow create the space
to hold whatever you have going on
then within that safety within that love
you'll be able to become
whole yeah
and how does that how does how does you
how does it work that you helping people
become whole makes you good enough if at
all
how much of your career your
education is based on that same
premise sorry my thoughts jumped tracks
a little too quickly and I lost the
thread yeah no
problem give me one question to focus on
the question was how much of you being
good enough is based on your ability to
help people be whole
and you were thinking about it in the
context of a boyfriend and then I jumped
contexts and said your
career your studies how much of that is
also an attempt to help make people
whole so that you can feel good
enough I don't know how much um I'm
noticing there's a little bit of a
paradox because
my my worldview my framework for study
like my my my theological worldview
which is is very much a part of my life
is that um I don't have to fix people I
don't have to make people
whole um I believe in a in a God who who
steps in everybody but you to do that
what do you mean everybody but
me well you're not good enough to be
loved you need to be more I think God
loves me I think I am loved I think I
just don't have the kinds of
relationship the kind of relationship
romantically that I want to have so
God's able to love you but you're the
person you want isn't able to love you
how does that work I can't even find the
person it feels
like how does that work like how does it
work that you're not enough you need to
be more to be
lovable like so God is not as smart as
the menu date
uh foolishness of the Cross and all that
yeah that works
um no I think that God isn't bounded by
human limitations so the way that God's
love works is different than the way
that human love
works ah what wait I'm confused because
that's how you're trying to love these
people to make them whole yeah how much
are you trying to replicate God's love
to love the
yeah I think I'm saving people despite
believing that I don't need to do that
let's assume for a second you can't
think your way out of
this okay now
what so I'm gonna ask the question again
and don't try to think your way out of
it let let's try a different approach
try surrender your way out of it
h so the question is
if God's love does doesn't require
anything of you but apparently human
love
does what makes it that
you are trying to love
people so well that it makes them
whole and that that gives you value on
some level makes you good enough on some
level yeah there that from that place
what happens
I don't know um I feel warmth coming up
yeah I I'm I experience a sense of
openness
great my question is what if you fully
allowed a man's love in that loved you
just for what you are what what do you
what are you potentially going to
lose the first thing that came up was
like oh no then I have to love them the
way they
are and but that has been what's gotten
me into trouble in the
past is trying to love someone the way
they are when they're not good enough
for
me um
like in in the in the back to God for a
second they that that idea is that God
loves you as you are doesn't mean that
God puts up with
it what's the difference between loving
somebody
and being boundaried with
somebody I think I experienced
boundaries when I see them causing
someone else discomfort as hurting them
and hurting them is not loving
them so but how does that apply to you
if you're being
hurt I think it means I'm willing to
love myself back to back to the
surrender back to the surrender uh yeah
like right now I'm loving you as you are
there's no there's no nothing in me that
is like wanting you to be different and
yet I'm still holding this boundary with
you of like hey like we're not going to
think our way into a
relationship what's the difference
between the two
you don't know
me that that's why I I'm it's that's
that's apparently why it's easy for me
to love you as you are I'm asking what's
the difference between my love for you
however it is right now and my boundary
with
you I'm not saying I love you just as
you are and go ahead and tell me your
story make your assumptions and I'm just
going to agree with all that stuff but
I'm also not asking you to
change you're asking me to change my you
are asking me to change something what
am I asking you to change the way that
I'm showing up for the
conversation asking is a good word
um I'm not not loving you as you
are and I'm proposing a way of being if
you said to me no I want to be in my
head I would be
okay I might not continue the
conversation I might not be like well
then we're not going to get anywhere
so what are we doing
here but it's not going to stop it's I'm
not going to harden to you my heart
isn't going to harden to
you yeah I don't think that I have the
same facility with that that you
do okay how about we start with
you how can you love yourself as you
are like in this moment how do you love
yourself the way God loves
you something's coming up around um my
imperfections and meeting myself with
love there specifically
yeah what what what what's impo what's
imperfect in God's
world oh so much is
broken how is that not how is that not
then a reflection that God is broken and
don't go into your head with
me from that place of loving yourself
how is God's world broken but God isn't
I think God is
broken okay
great I'm noticing that using that word
with reference to God shifts my
definition of broken a little bit shifts
my thinking around
Brokenness I think God is broken because
God chooses to love us in our
imperfection I saw that same sadness
come when you said
it when you said oh I think God is
broken I saw the same sadness in you
that I saw earlier when you were
thinking about how you
accepted what's the core belief
there like what's the core belief around
Brokenness and
love that things can still be beautiful
when they're broken
how else could they be
beautiful they could be beautiful by
being pristine unbroken in the first
place they could be beautiful by being
healed like like
what what's pristine what's fully
healed yeah so can you give that to
yourself
the impossibility of your pristineness
or your fully
healed this is getting sorry my the
inside of my brain is getting very
metaphysical and good just that it's
taking us away from the heart of a
conversation it isn't
okay we're we're in the heart I think
that
there are realities that layer on top of
one another and that in God's reality
the reality that I believe is
coming all things are not in the head
though you I F we'll go there just not
in the head
okay I think that in that reality all
things are healed and that that's
breaking into this reality this felt
reality yeah I think that those things
exist at the same time yeah great I love
it so how how does it feel to give
yourself
that that you're already
healed or you've never been not pristine
however you want to look at
it I there is a really deep tenderness
there yeah
there is some resistance too yeah close
close your eyes get in touch with that
tenderness I want you to notice the
resistance in
yourself and now I want you to move that
tenderness to a
man and notice what resistance arises if
you actually
give that same level of tenderness not
like the guarded level of tenderness but
that same
tenderness this will take a minute
[Music]
yeah the tenderness doesn't require
effort no the focus
does the uh the resistance is actually
difficult to to notice and
Trace what I notice when I move that uh
tenderness to another person is just
this really profound longing for
connection yeah like this Primal want to
be in relationship and connection with
them yeah how is that not
connection the Primal want the
longing well I I think connection is a a
two-way street so I've got one
way so God only is connected with people
who are connected with
God I think God can do whatever the [__]
God wants to do but I'm not
God
great I I I I am confident you have a
experienced connection for someone that
is not experiencing
connection for you
if you take it out of
the Romantic thing that you know I'm
sure you've had that
experience so how is that yearning for
connection not Connection in itself
yeah forget your head I know I felt
it oh I I think it's a different quality
than the connection that I
want I want to be met so your connection
also needs to be a little bit more you
need to be a little bit more they need
to be a little bit more your connection
needs to be a little bit more
what what excludes God from this needing
to be a little bit more or maybe maybe
not
excluded what excludes God from this
wanting to be say it again please uh
this needing to be a little bit more
what excludes God from this needing to
be a little a little bit more you need
to be a little bit more to be loved the
connection needs to be a little bit more
the the man is not good
enough needs to be a little bit
more I'm having trouble connecting the
two concepts the needing to be a little
bit more with the exclusion of
God when you you are when you are in
prayer does God need to be a little bit
more does your sometimes yes okay cool
great
awesome yeah what does this protect you
from in
yourself with god with the man with
connection this idea that it needs to
needs to be a little bit
more H it protects me from a conviction
that it's
all on me to be
enough it protects you from the
conviction that you're fully responsible
for
enoughness
yes okay and what if you fully are
convicted to that you it's all on you
God Is Enough when you figured it out
you're enough when you figured it out
the man will be enough when you figure
it
out the emotional experiencing that
you're having right now will be enough
when you figure it out what's the
problem with that what's the problem
with that con with that conviction I
don't know that I see a problem I think
maybe that's the
[Laughter]
problem let's test it you're
enough my experience of you is that
you're plenty enough yeah what what just
happened there you did
this what did Happ do that I wasn't
checking what was the feeling you had
when I said you're
enough my experience of you is enough it
was a desire to
like
um shift in my emotional seat it was you
saw the movement I needed to make in
order to focus more
fully great so my experience of you is
that you're
enough
resistance yeah you don't know
me yeah you don't know that about
me doesn't stop the fact that my
experience of you is that you're enough
your experience is
subjective it is as is
yours you're not enough you don't know
yourself you're not enough your
experience is
subjective you're not enough connection
is not enough you don't know
connection your version of connection is
not enough
subjective what do you lose if this idea
that you're not enough goes away
that you don't need to be a little bit
more that I'm not in control
of my experience that I'm not in control
of the life I'm
living
yeah that's
true I've got some strong [__] that
energy
there that's cool yeah great so just say
it to
God [__] control over my own [__]
life I'm in control you're
not are you playing the role of God
right now Joe no I'm saying that's what
you need to tell God I'm not saying that
you don't want to be in control but
you're like you're like if I believe
this I'm not in control so that means
you are in
control to say it like yeah I'm in
control of all this you're
not I am in control of all of
this oh that's not [__]
[Laughter]
[Music]
true oh no
[Laughter]
okay I want to be in control of all this
yeah
yeah so you're accept you're you're
you're trying to make a trade of control
over loving
yourself you don't get to make it so
there's a lot of friction in your world
but like that's the trade
you don't get to see yourself as
pristine and broken at the same time or
beautiful why not you need to be in
control why does the need to be in
control exclude holding both of those
things at once no find out hold it see
if you can yourself just as you are
right
now including your ability or your
desire to be in
control so the last part of this is
if you let love in I don't believe you
haven't found the man my belief my my
experience in all this stuff is
that we don't find the right person we
don't have that love doesn't come into
our lives when we're scared of losing
ourselves or control would be another
way to another set of words for it
that
resonates
yeah so the the final part of this is
like how much can you surrender into
love and it doesn't really matter if you
surrender into the love of yourself or
the love of God or the love of a of a
man all of them are a loss of
control how is it's a dissolution of
self there's not even a self left to be
in
control yes that was the thing my brain
was going to was how how is the loss of
control not also the loss of self that's
right oh I don't like that I don't want
to give myself away that
way oddly you're not giving yourself
it's not a giving
away what what is
it
dissolution what does dissolution let's
start with
God love
God love God fully right in this moment
and tell me what happens to you
non defended
love no armor up
love no longer in control love
just in that what happens to your sense
what happens to you in
that did you give yourself to God did
just dissolve what
happened there's that sadness again
oh I'm trying
to um if it's it feels like trying to
catch a waterfall it's just yeah all the
emotions it's it's the it's all of that
yearning for connection it's not just
with what it means to love God is it it
means loving the world and that's a [__]
ton of [__] to love
Joe yeah it
is um yeah fear is up the the fear over
yeah it's a [__] ton of [__] to
love
yeah it's [__]
overwhelming yeah this is the
dissolution of self here right now this
this thing this is what it
requires I can't function like
this she says she says talking sentences
[Laughter]
yeah you
can you but you can't like function
happens but the u in
it isn't
functioning and from this place like
really feel like if you feel this
overwhelm let's say in this over where
you really allow that love
in and then I'm your romantic partner
and I'm
like hey babe I'm gonna like go out and
get drunk
tonight I don't know what you wouldn't
want me to do or I'm going to yell at
you or something like that from that
place of dissolution what
happens not the head
oh I
feel distracted by the dog sorry it's
okay it's a [__] ton of stuff to
love I feel the love though like yeah do
that do that and just notice me breaking
your boundary in a romantic relationship
if you feel the love what
happens when the self is
dissolving now like I lose track of my
own needs that's what happens that's
what you
did stay in the
overwhelm see what happens what's the
thing what's the way that you lose track
of your needs what does the man
say
the I lost track of my needs in the
sense of overwhelm what I felt in that
invitation was no no I'm saying like if
you if I go back into your last
relationship what's what's the pattern
that makes you lose Lose
Yourself not lose yourself as in
dissolve but Lose Yourself as in stop
listening to yourself and and follow
somebody else's desires or wants or
something what's the pattern what do
they
do hold you responsible for something or
they get really depressed and your job
is to fix them like what what's the way
you lose yourself in the relationship
what's the what's the like a typical
pattern that
you get into that makes you betray
yourself not lose yourself but betray
yourself in
a in a in a romantic
relationship it's the sense of that
person articulating a need that is in
direct
conflict with my needs and yeah I choose
between
great perfect compromising or
leaving great that's all I need great so
now let's go back to that place of
overwhelmed because there's so much to
love just as it
is go back to the place of overwhelming
when you and I were both crying together
I didn't notice you were crying yeah I
was
crying overwhelmed with there's so much
to love if I it's not I just can't love
God is what you said if I do that I'm
going to have to love the whole
world that's what you said and that's so
much to
love yeah just stay there and see what
happens to this
I need you to stop being Christian so
that we can be romantically involved
from that place what happens from that
overwhelm of
Love yeah take your time I mean it's
sadness it's grief there's yeah I'm
noticing H like it's it's funny yeah
because you you you can't take that
apart like
yeah right you you wouldn't have
me
right that's
right it's you allowing that overwhelm
heartbreak when somebody
is asking you to violate yourself to
stay in a
relationship that prevents you from
violating yourself to stay in the
relationship yeah I buy
that it's not even an
option that's what my breakups have
always looked like it's just taking a
long time to get there
sometimes yeah
if it doesn't if that's the standard
from the beginning of the
relationship and the relationship is
over quickly or it's a
match it is the surrender into the
reality and loving the reality that
allows a relationship to be good it
allows you not to lose
yourself oh God this sucks and and this
is my truth and I'm scared of losing
you and I don't know what to do but I'm
not willing to violate myself and I
don't want you to violate yourself how
do we do that and we can be in here
together in the Heartbreak of
it that's what a functional relationship
looks
like the dysfunctional relationship
like okay I'm going to manage my
emotional experience so that I can keep
connection with
you and violate
myself idea sense like I I I get it like
I I get it I I know that deeply that
thing you just
said yeah and I I
can I live like that so you you had this
moment I want to pull us back you had
this
moment
where you saw the path and you were like
oh I'd have to love everything and then
you said I'm not I'm not functional here
and and then you said and if I'm here
then I'm going to totally betray myself
inside of a
relationship so intellectually I get
that you get it but emotionally you're
not there because you think you're going
to betray yourself and you think you're
not going to be
functional you're not loving yourself
slash godash the world slash a
man because you have this fear that
you're going to betray your
s okay I can buy that I can
buy I can buy the Divide between my
emotional intellectual reality that
feels real yeah how do I bridge that you
already did that's a question your mind
asked but your heart already knows the
answer to
it allow the Heartbreak of love and
that's what love does it breaks your
heart open
start with yourself to stop me from just
loving everyone like I mean like I can
love everyone in the Christian way but
like in terms of romantic options
specifically how do I what
where how do I
discern you
don't it all it all takes care of itself
for you
fairmon
hormones family of origin issues
matching
traumas it all works itself
out you'll find the exact person that
you need to heal your side and they'll
heal their side
together that's how it always works that
way the question is are you just able to
love yourself the only real question is
how how able are you to love yourself
and take the risk of complete
Annihilation inside of
love I'm noticing the part of myself
that wants to ask what to do
next and I I predict that your response
to that would be there is nothing to do
I'd say Let Your Heart Break Every Time
be overwhelmed by the love that you feel
for the whole world and yourself you
want something to do do
[Music]
that
okay thank you Joe you're welcome what a
pleasure you can sign up for our
newsletter or learn more about our
courses at artof accomplishment. the art
of accomplishment was produced and
hosted by me Brett kler and Joe Hudson M
Kelly is our production coordinator and
Sarah Melody edited this episode